# Exercise 2
## Pointers


### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.
| STACK     |
| var2      |
| HEAP      |
| p         |
| GLOBALS   |
| var1      |
| CONSTANTS |
| s         |
| CODE      |
| main      |
4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).  
The heap did grow as a result.
5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  
The stack did grow down as a result.
6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.
There is 0x20 space between them.

### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?
This program is supposed to create and update the array and the expected if supposed to be
42
42
42
42
42
2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?
The warning says:
stack.c: In function ‘foo’:
stack.c:22:12: warning: function returns address of local variable [-Wreturn-local-addr]
     return array;
It means foo is returning the address of an array created inside the foo function
whose memory is allocated on the stack during the function call however freed once
the function call ends. Therefore the returned pointer points to unallocated
memory.
3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.
I got a segmentation fault which meant that the buffer overflowed and the reason
 for this error is explained above.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.
In addition to the segmentation fault I also got two identical addresses which I
believe is the address of the array just created.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Write some code

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
